Lamsa Translation - Matthew Chapter 28
 
 
IN the evening of the sabbath day, when the first day of the week began, there came Mary of Magdala and the other Mary, to see the tomb.
 
2 And behold, a great earthquake took place; for the angel of the Lord came down from heaven, and went up and rolled away the stone from the door, and sat on it.
 
3 His appearance was like lightning, and his garments white as snow.
 
4 And for fear of him the guards who were watching trembled, and became as if they were dead.
 
5 But the angel answered and said to the women, You need not be afraid; for I know that you are seeking Jesus who was crucified.
 
6 He is not here, for he has risen, just as he had said. Come in, see the place where our Lord was laid.
 
7 And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead; and behold, he will be before you to Galilee; there you will see him; behold, I have told you.
 
8 And they went away hurriedly from the tomb with fear and with great joy, running to tell his disciples.
 
9 And behold, Jesus met them, and said to them, Peace be to you. And they came up and laid hold of his feet, and worshipped him.
 
10 Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid; but go and tell my brethren to go to Galilee, and there they shall see me.
 
11 ¶ When they were going, some of the guards came into the city, and told the high priests everything that had happened.
 
12 So they gathered with the elders and took counsel; and they gave money, not a small sum, to the guards,
 
13 Telling them, Say that his disciples came by night and stole him while we were sleeping.
 
14 And if this should be heard by the governor, we will appeal to him, and declare that you are blameless.
 
15 So they took the money, and did as they were instructed; and this word went out among the Jews, until this day.
 
16 ¶ The eleven disciples then went to Galilee to a mountain, where Jesus had promised to meet them.
 
17 And when they saw him, they worshipped him; but some of them were doubtful.
 
18 And Jesus came up and spoke with them, and said to them, All power in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Just as my Father has sent me I am also sending you.
 
19 Go, therefore, and convert all nations; and baptize them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit;
 
20 And teach them to obey everything that I have commanded you; and, behold, I am with you all the days , to the end of the world. Amen.
  
