Lamsa Translation - Matthew Chapter 1
 
 
THE book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
 
2 Abraham begot Isaac; Isaac begot Jacob; Jacob begot Judah and his brothers;
 
3 Judah begot Perez and Zerah of his wife Tamar; Perez begot Hezron; Hezron begot Aram;
 
4 Aram begot Aminadab; Aminadab begot Nahson; Nahson begot Salmon;
 
5 Salmon begot Boaz of his wife Rahab; Boaz begot Obed of his wife Ruth; Obed begot Jesse;
 
6 Jesse begot David the king; David the king begot Solomon of the wife of Uriah;
 
7 Solomon begot Rehoboam; Rehoboam begot Abijah; Abijah begot Asa;
 
8 Asa begot Jehoshaphat; Jehoshaphat begot Joram; Joram begot Uzziah;
 
9 Uzziah begot Jotham; Jotham begot Ahaz; Ahaz begot Hezekiah;
 
10 Hezekiah begot Manasseh; Manasseh begot Amon; Amon begot Josiah;
 
11 Josiah begot Jechoniah and his brothers, about the captivity of Babylon.
 
12 And after the captivity of Babylon, Jechoniah begot Shealtiel; Shealtiel begot Zerubbabel;
 
13 Zerubbabel begot Abiud; Abiud begot Eliakim; Eliakim begot Azor;
 
14 Azor begot Sadoc; Sadoc begot Achim; Achim begot Eliud;
 
15 Eliud begot Eleazar; Eleazar begot Matthan; Matthan begot Jacob;
 
16 Jacob begot Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.
 
17 ¶ Therefore all the generations, from Abraham down to David, are fourteen generations; and from David down to the Babylonian captivity, fourteen generations; and from the Babylonian captivity down to Christ, fourteen generations.
 
18 ¶ The birth of Jesus Christ was in this manner. While Mary his mother was acquired for a price for Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit.
 
19 But Joseph her husband was a pious man, and did not wish to make it public; so he was thinking of divorcing her secretly.
 
20 While he was considering this, the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, and said to him, O, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take your wife Mary, because he that is to be born of her is of the Holy Spirit.
 
21 She will give birth to a son, and you will call his name Jesus; for he shall save his people from their sins.
 
22 ¶ All this happened, that what was spoken from the Lord by the prophet might be fulfilled,
 
23 Behold, a virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they shall call his name Immanuel, which is interpreted, Our God is with us.
 
24 When Joseph rose up from his sleep, he did just as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and he took his wife.
 
25 And he did not know her until she gave birth to her first-born son; and she called his name Jesus.
  
