Lamsa Translation - Matthew Chapter 7
 
 
JUDGE not, that you may not be judged.
 
2 For with the same judgment that you judge, you will be judged, and with the same measure with which you measure, it will be measured to you.
 
3 Why do you see the splinter which is in your brother’s eye, and do not feel the beam which is in your own eye?
 
4 Or how can you say to your brother, let me take out the splinter from your eye, and behold there is a cross beam in your own eye?
 
5 O hypocrites, first take out the beam from your own eye, and then you will see clearly to get out the splinter from your brother’s eye.
 
6 ¶Do not give holy things to the dogs; and do not throw your pearls before the swine, for they might tread them with their feet, and then turn and rend you.
 
7 ¶ Ask, and it shall be given to you; seek, and you shall find; knock and it shall be opened to you.
 
8 For whoever asks, receives; and he who seeks, finds; and to him who knocks, the door is opened.
 
9 Or who is the man among you, who when his son asks him for bread, why, will he hand him a stone?
 
10 Or if he should ask him for fish, why, will he hand him a snake?
 
11 If therefore you who err, know how to give good gifts to your sons, how much more will your Father in heaven give good things to those who ask him?
 
12 Whatever you wish men to do for you, do likewise also for them; for this is the law and the prophets.
 
13 Enter in through the narrow door, for wide is the door, and broad is the road which carries to destruction, and many are those who travel on it.
 
14 O how narrow is the door, and how difficult is the road which carries to life, and few are those who are found on it.
 
15 ¶ Be careful of false prophets who come to you in lamb’s clothing, but within they are ravening wolves.
 
16 You will know them by their fruits. Why, do they gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles?
 
17 So every good tree bears good fruits; but a bad tree bears bad fruits.
 
18 A good tree cannot bear bad fruits, neither can a bad tree bear good fruits.
 
19 Any tree which does not bear good fruits will be cut down and cast into the fire.
 
20 Thus by their fruits you will know them.
 
21 ¶ It is not everyone who merely says to me, My Lord, my Lord, will enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father in heaven.
 
22 A great many will say to me in that day, My Lord, my Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and in your name cast out devils, and in your name do many wonders?
 
23 Then I will declare to them, I have never known you; keep away from me, O you that work iniquity.
 
24 ¶ Therefore whoever hears these words of mine, and does them, he is like a wise man, who built his house upon a rock.
 
25 And the rain came down, and the rivers overflowed, and the winds blew, and they beat upon that house; but it did not fall down, because its foundations were laid upon a rock.
 
26 And whoever hears these words of mine, and does them not, is like a foolish man, who built his house upon sand.
 
27 And the rain came down, and the rivers overflowed, and the winds blew, and they beat upon that house; and it fell down, and its fall was very great.
 
28 ¶And it happened when Jesus finished these words, the crowds were stunned at his teaching.
 
29 For he taught them as one who had the power, and not like their own scribes and Pharisees.
 
