Lamsa Translation - Matthew Chapter 8
 
 
WHEN he came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him.
 
2 And behold a leper came and worshipped him, and said, My Lord, if you wish, you can cleanse me.
 
3 And Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, and he said, I do wish, be cleansed. And in that hour his leprosy was cleansed.
 
4 Jesus then said to him, Look here, why are you telling it to men? go first and show yourself to the priests, and offer an offering as Moses has commanded, for a testimonial to them.
 
5 ¶ When Jesus entered Capernaum, a centurion approached him, and appealed to him,
 
6 Saying, My Lord, my boy is lying in the house, paralyzed, and suffering greatly.
 
7 Jesus said to him, I will come and heal him.
 
8 The centurion then answered and said, My Lord, I am not good enough that you should enter under the shadow of my roof; but just say a word, and my boy will be healed.
 
9 For I am also a man in government service, and there are soldiers under my command; and I say to this one, Go, and he goes; and to the other, Come, and he comes; and to my servant, Do this, and he does it.
 
10 When Jesus heard it, he was amazed, and he said to those who accompanied him, Truly I say to you, that not even in Israel have I found such faith as this.
 
11 And I say to you, that a great many will come from the east and from the west, and sit down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven.
 
12 But the sons of the kingdom will be put out in the outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
 
13 So Jesus said to the centurion, Go, let it be done to you according to your belief. And his boy was healed in that very hour.
 
14 ¶ And Jesus came to the Simon’s house, and he saw his mother-in-law laid up and sick with fever.
 
15 And he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she got up and waited on them.
 
16 ¶ Now when evening came, they brought to him a great many lunatics, and he cured them just by a word; and he healed all who were badly afflicted.
 
17 So that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah, might be fulfilled, who said, He will take our afflictions and bear our sickness.
 
18 ¶ When Jesus saw large crowds surrounding him, he gave orders to go to the crossing place.
 
19 And a scribe drew near and said to him, O my teacher, I will follow you wherever you go.
 
20 Jesus said to him, The foxes have holes, and the fowls of the sky a sheltering place, but the Son of man has no place even to lay his head.
 
21 Another of his disciples said to him, My Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.
 
22 But Jesus said to him, Come after me, and let the dead bury their own dead.
 
23 ¶ And when Jesus went up into the boat, his disciples went with him.
 
24 And behold the sea became very rough, so that the boat was almost covered by the waves; but Jesus was asleep.
 
25 And his disciples came near and woke him up, and said to him, Our Lord, save us, we are perishing.
 
26 Jesus said to them, Why are you fearful, O you of little faith? Then he got up and rebuked the wind and the sea, and there was a great calm.
 
27 But the men were surprised, saying, Who is this man, that even the winds and the sea obey him?
 
28 ¶ And when Jesus came to the port on the other side, to the country of the Gadarenes, he was met by two lunatics,* who were just coming out of the cemetery. They were exceedingly vicious so that no man would dare to pass by that road.
 
29 And they cried aloud saying, What business have we together, Jesus, "son of God"? Have you come here to torment us before the time?
 
30 Now there was near by them a large herd of swine feeding.
 
31 And the lunatics kept asking him, saying, If you are going to heal us, permit us to attack # the herd of swine.
 
32 Jesus said to them, Go. And immediately they left and attacked the swine, and the whole herd went straight over the cliff, and fell into the sea, and were drowned in the water.
 
33 And they who fed them ran away and went to the city, and reported everything that happened, and about the lunatics.
 
34 So all the city went out to meet Jesus; and when they saw him, they urged him to depart from their borders.
  
