Lamsa Translation - Matthew Chapter 19
 
 
WHEN Jesus had finished these sayings, he departed from Galilee, and came to the border of Judaea, at the crossing of the Jordan.
 
2 And a great many people followed him, and he healed them there.
 
3 ¶ And the Pharisees came up to him and were tempting him and saying, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any cause?
 
4 But he answered and said to them, Have you not read, that he who made from the beginning, made them male and female?
 
5 And he said, Because of this, a man shall leave his father and his mother, and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh.
 
6 Henceforth they are not two, but one body; therefore what God has joined together, man must not separate.
 
7 They said to him, Why then did Moses command to give a letter of separation and then divorce her?
 
8 He said to them, Moses, considering the hardness of your heart, gave you permission to divorce your wives; but from the beginning it was not so.
 
9 But I say to you, Whoever leaves his wife without a charge of adultery and marries another commits adultery; and he who marries a woman thus separated commits adultery.
 
10 ¶ His disciples said to him, If there is so much scandal between man and woman, it is not worthwhile to marry.
 
11 He said to them, This saying does not apply to every man, but to whom it is needed.
 
12 For there are eunuchs who were born this way from their mother’s womb; and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men; and there are eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. To him who can grasp, this is enough.
 
13 ¶ Then they brought little boys to him, that he may lay his hand on them and pray; and his disciples rebuked them.
 
14 But Jesus said to them, Allow the little boys to come to me, and do not stop them; for the kingdom of heaven is for such as these.
 
15 And he laid his hand on them, and went away from thence.
 
16 ¶ Then a man came up and said to him, O good * Teacher, what is the best that I should do to have life eternal?
 
17 He said to him, Why do you call me good? There is no one who is good except the one God; but if you want to enter into life, obey the commandments.
 
18 He said to him, Which ones? And Jesus said to him, You shall not kill; You shall not commit adultery; You shall not steal; You shall not bear false witness;
 
19 Honor your father and your mother; and, Love your neighbor as yourself.
 
20 The young man said to him, I have obeyed all these from my boyhood, what do I lack?
 
21 Jesus said to him. If you wish to be perfect, go and sell your possessions and give them to the poor, and you will have a treasure in heaven; then follow me.
 
22 When the young man heard this word, he went away sad, for he had great possessions.
 
23 ¶ Jesus then said to his disciples, Truly I say to you, It is difficult for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of heaven.
 
24 Again I say to you, It is easier for a rope to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
 
25 When the disciples heard it, they were exceedingly astonished, saying, Who then can be saved?
 
26 Jesus looked at them and said, For men this is impossible, but for God everything is possible.
 
27 ¶ Then Peter answered and said to him, Behold, we have left everything and followed you; what will we have?
 
28 Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, that in the new world when the Son of man shall sit on the throne of his glory, you who have come after me shall also sit on twelve chairs, and you shall judge the twelve tribes of Israel.
 
29 And every man who leaves houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or fields, for my name’s sake, shall receive a hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life.
 
30 But many who are first shall be last, and the last first.
  
