Lamsa Translation - Matthew Chapter 11
 
 
WHEN Jesus had finished commanding his twelve disciples, he departed from that place to teach and to preach in their cities.
 
2 But when John heard in prison of the works of Christ, he sent by his disciples,
 
3 And said to him, Are you the one who is to come, or are we to expect another?
 
4 Jesus answered and said, Go and describe to John the things which you see and hear.
 
5 The blind see, and the lame walk, and the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear , and the dead rise up, and the poor are given hope.
 
6 And blessed is he who does not stumble on account of me.
 
7 ¶ When they went away, Jesus began to speak to the people concerning John, What did you go out to the wilderness to see? A reed which is shaken by the wind?
 
8 If not so, what did you go out to see? A man dressed in fine clothes? Behold those who wear fine clothes are in kings’ houses.
 
9 And if not so, What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and much more than a prophet.
 
10 For this is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, to prepare the way before you.
 
11 ¶ Truly I say to you, that among those who are born of women, there has never risen one who is greater than John the Baptist; and yet even the least person in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.
 
12 From the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven has been administered by force, and only those in power control it.
 
13 For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.
 
14 And if you wish, accept it, that he is Elijah who was to come.
 
15 He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
 
16 ¶ But to whom shall I liken this generation? It is like boys who sit in the street and call to their friends.
 
17 And say, We have sung to you, but you would not dance; and we have wailed to you but you did not mourn.
 
18 For John came, neither eating nor drinking, and they said he is crazy.
 
19 The Son of man came, eating and drinking, and they said, Behold, a glutton and a wine-bibber, and a friend of publicans and sinners. And yet wisdom is justified by its works.
 
20 ¶ Then Jesus began to reproach the cities in which his many works were done, and which did not repent. And he said,
 
21 Woe to you, Chorazin! woe to you, Bethsaida! for if in Tyre and Sidon had been done the works which were done in you, they might have repented in sackcloth and ashes.
 
22 But I say to you, It will be easier for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment, than for you.
 
23 And you, Capernaum, which have exalted yourself up to heaven, shall be brought down to Sheol; for if in Sodom had been done the works which were done in you, it would be standing to this day.
 
24 But I say to you, It will be easier for the land of Sodom in the judgment day, than for you.
 
25 ¶ At that time, Jesus answered and said, I thank you, O my Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and the men of understanding, and you have revealed them to children.
 
26 O yes, my Father, for such was your will.
 
27 Everything has been delivered to me by my Father, and no man knows the Son except the Father, nor does any man know the Father but the Son, and he to whomever the Son wishes to reveal.
 
28 ¶ Come to me, all you who are tired out and carrying burdens, and I will give you rest.
 
29 Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am genial and meek in my heart, and you will find rest to your souls.
 
30 For my yoke is very pleasant, and my burden is light.
  
