Lamsa Translation - Matthew Chapter 16
 
 
AND the Pharisees and Sadducees came up to him to tempt him; and they asked him to show them a sign from heaven.
 
2 But he answered and said to them, When it is evening, you say, It is clear, for the sky is red.
 
3 And in the morning you say, It is a winter day, for the sky is red and cloudy. O hypocrites, you know how to judge the face of the sky, but the signs of the present time you are not able to distinguish.
 
4 A wicked and adulterous generation wants a sign; and no sign shall be given to it, except the sign of the prophet Jonah. And he left them and went away.
 
5 When his disciples came to the crossing place, they had forgotten to take bread with them.
 
6 He said to them, Look out and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.
 
7 And they were reasoning among themselves and saying, It is because we have not brought bread.
 
8 But Jesus knew it and said to them, What are you thinking among yourselves, O you of little faith; is it because you have not brought bread?
 
9 Do you not yet understand? Do you not remember the five loaves of bread of the five thousand, and how many baskets you took up?
 
10 Neither the seven loaves of bread of the four thousand, and how many baskets you took up?
 
11 How is it that you did not understand that I was not talking to you about the bread, but to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees?
 
12 Then they understood, that he did not say that they should beware of the leaven of the bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and the Sadducees.
 
13 ¶ When Jesus came to the country of Caesarea of Philippi, he asked his disciples saying, What do the men say concerning me, that I am merely a son of man?
 
14 They said, There are some who say John the Baptist, others Elijah, and still others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets:
 
15 He said to them, Who do you say that I am?
 
16 Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
 
17 Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon son of Jonah, for flesh and blood did not reveal it to you, but my Father in heaven.
 
18 I tell you also that you are a stone, and upon this stone I will build my church; and the doors of Sheol shall not shut in on it.
 
19 I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven; and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you release on earth shall be released in heaven.
 
20 Then he charged his disciples not to tell any man that he is the Christ.
 
21 ¶ From that time Jesus began to make known to his disciples, that he will shortly have to go to Jerusalem, and suffer a great deal from the elders, and the high priests and scribes, and be killed, and rise up on the third day.
 
22 So Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, and he said, Far be it from you, my Lord, that this should happen to you.
 
23 But he turned, and said to Peter, Get behind me, Satan, you are a stumbling-block to me; for you are not thinking of the things of God, but of men.
 
24 ¶ Then Jesus said to his disciples, He who wishes to come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow me.
 
25 For whoever wishes to save his life shall lose it; and whoever loses his life for my sake shall find it.
 
26 For how will a man be benefited, if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?
 
27 For the Son of man will come in the glory of his Father with his holy angels; and then he will reward each man according to his works.
 
28 Truly I say to you, There are men who stand here, who will not taste death, until they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom.
  
