Lamsa Translation - Matthew Chapter 3
 
 
IN those days came John the Baptist; and he was preaching in the wilderness of Judaea,
 
2 Saying, Repent; for the kingdom of heaven is near.
 
3 For it was he of whom it was said by the prophet Isaiah, The voice which cries in the
wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord, and straighten his highways.
 
4 Now the same John’s clothes were made of camel’s hair, and he had leathern belts around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey.
 
5 Then there went out to him, Jerusalem and all of Judaea, and the whole country around Jordan.
 
6 And they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, as they confessed their sins.
 
7 But when he saw a great many of the Pharisees and Sadducees who were coming to be baptized, he said to them, O offspring of scorpions, who has warned you to escape from the anger which is to come?
 
8 Bring forth therefore fruits which are worthy of repentance;
 
9 And do not think and say within yourselves, We have Abraham as our father; for I say to you that God can raise up children for Abraham from these stones.
 
10 Behold, the axe is already placed at the root of the trees; therefore, every tree which bears not good fruits shall be cut down and dropped in the fire.
 
11 I am just baptizing you with water for repentance; but he who is coming after me is greater than I, the one even whose shoes I am not worthy to remove; he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.
 
12 Whose shovel is in his hand, and he purifies his threshings; the wheat he gathers into his barns, and the straw he burns up in the unquenchable fire.
 
13 ¶ Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him.
 
14 But John tried to stop him, and said, I need to be baptized by you, and yet have you come to me?
 
15 But Jesus answered and said to him, Permit now, for this is necessary for us so that all righteousness may be fulfilled; and then he permitted him.
 
16 ¶ When Jesus was baptized, he immediately came out of the water; and the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and coming upon him;
 
17 And behold, a voice from heaven, which said, This is my beloved Son, with whom I am pleased.
 
