Lamsa Translation - Matthew Chapter 17
 
 
AND after six days Jesus took Peter and James and his brother John, and brought them up to a high mountain alone.
 
2 And Jesus was transfigured before them, and his face shone like the sun, and his clothes turned white like light.
 
3 And there appeared to them Moses and Elijah, as they were talking with him.
 
4 Then Peter answered and said to Jesus, My Lord, it is better for us to remain here; and if you wish, we will make three shelters here, one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
 
5 And while he was speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud saying, This is my beloved Son, I am pleased with him; hear him.
 
6 When the disciples heard it, they threw themselves on their faces, and they were greatly frightened.
 
7 And Jesus came near them and touched them, and said, Arise, do not be afraid.
 
8 And they raised up their eyes, and they saw no man, except Jesus alone.
 
9 And as they were going down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, and said to them, Do not speak of this vision in the presence of anyone, until the Son of man rises from the dead.
 
10 And his disciples asked him, and said, Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
 
11 Jesus answered and said to them, Elijah will come first, so that everything might be fulfilled.
 
12 But I say to you, Elijah has already come, and they did not know him, and they did to him whatever they pleased. Thus also the Son of man is bound to suffer from them.
 
13 Then the disciples understood that what he had told them was about John the Baptist.
 
14 ¶ And when they came to the people, a man approached him and knelt on his knees, and said to him,
 
15 My Lord, have mercy on me; my son is an epileptic and has become worse; he often falls into the fire, and often into the water.
 
16 And I brought him to your disciples, but they were not able to heal him.
 
17 Jesus answered and said, O faithless and crooked generation, how long shall I be with you? and how long shall I preach to you? bring him here to me.
 
18 And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon went out of him; and the boy was healed from that very hour.
 
19 Then the disciples came up to Jesus when he was alone, and said to him, Why could we not heal him?
 
20 Jesus said to them, Because of your unbelief; for truly I say to you, If there is faith in you even as a grain of mustard, you will say to this mountain, move away from here, and it will move away; and nothing would prevail over you.
 
21 Nevertheless this kind does not come out, except by fasting and prayer.
 
22 ¶ While they were returning through Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of man will shortly be delivered into the hands of men;
 
23 And they will kill him, and on the third day he will rise up. And they were very much grieved.
 
24 ¶ And when they came to Capernaum, those who collect two coins of silver as headtax came to Peter and said to him, Would not your master give his two coins?
 
25 He said to them, Yes. And when Peter entered the house, Jesus anticipated and said to him, What do you think, Simon? from whom do the kings of the earth collect custom duties and head- tax? from their sons, or from strangers?
 
26 Simon said to him, From strangers. Jesus said to him, Then the sons are free.
 
27 But so as not to offend them, go to the sea, and throw out a hook, and the first fish which comes up, open its mouth and you will find a coin; take it and give it for me and for you.
  
