6 Take attention that you do not your charity before men, to be seen of them: otherwise you have no reward of your Father which is in heaven.

2 Therefore when you do your charity, do not sound a trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men. truly I say to you, They have their reward.

3 But when you do charity, let not your left hand know what your right hand does:

4 That your charity may be in secret: and your Father which sees in secret himself shall reward you openly.

5 And when you pray, you shall not be as the hypocrites are: for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. truly I say to you, They have their reward.

6 But you, when you pray, enter into your room, and when you have shut your door, pray to your Father which is in secret; and your Father which sees in secret shall reward you openly.

7 But when you pray, use not vain repetitions, as the pagans do: for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.

8 Be not you therefore like to them: for your Father know what things you have need of, before you ask him.

9 After this manner therefore pray you: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be your name.

10 your kingdom come, your will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.

11 Give us this day our daily bread.

12 And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.

13 And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: For your is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen.

14 For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you:

15 But if you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.

16 Moreover when you fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear to men to fast. truly I say to you, They have their reward.

17 But you, when you fast, oil your head, and wash your face;

18 That you appear not to men to fast, but to your Father which is in secret: and your Father, which sees in secret, shall reward you openly.

19 Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust do corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal:

20 But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust do corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal:

21 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

22 The light of the body is the eye: if therefore your eye be single, your whole body shall be full of light.

23 But if your eye be evil, your whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in you be darkness, how great is that darkness!

24 No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. you cannot serve God and money.

25 Therefore I say to you, Take no worry for your life, what you shall eat, or what you shall drink; nor worry for your body, what you shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than clothes?

26 Behold the birds of the air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not much better than they?

27 Which of you by taking worry can add one hour to his life?

28 And why take you worry for clothes? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they labor not, neither do they spin:

29 And yout I say to you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not dressed like one of these.

30 Wherefore, if God so clothes the grass of the field, which to day is, and to tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith?

31 Therefore take no worry, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?

32 (For after all these things do the Pagans seek:) for your heavenly Father know that you have need of all these things.

33 But seek you first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added to you.

34 Take therefore no worry for the tomorrow: for the tomorrow shall take worry for the things of itself. Sufficient to the day is the evil thereof.