5 And seeing the crowd, he went up into a mountain: and when he was set, his disciples came to him:

2 And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying,

3 Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

4 Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.

5 Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.

6 Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.

7 Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.

8 Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.

9 Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.

10 Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

11 Blessed are you, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake.

12 Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you.

13 you are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men.

14 you are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.

15 Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bush, but on a candlestick; and it give light to all that are in the house.

16 Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

17 Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil.

18 For truly I say to you, Till heaven and earth pass, one bit or one dot shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled.

19 Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.

20 For I say to you, That except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven.

21 you have heard that it was said of them of old time, you shall not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment:

22 But I say to you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment: and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council: but whosoever shall say, youfool, shall be in danger of hell fire.

23 Therefore if you bring your gift to the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you;

24 Leave there your gift before the altar, and go your way; first be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.

25 Agree with your adversary quickly, whiles you art in the way with him; lest at any time the adversary deliver you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and you be cast into prison.

26 Truly I say to you, you shall by no means come out thence, till you have paid the last penny.

27 you have heard that it was said by them of old time, you shall not commit adultery:

28 But I say to you, That whosoever look on a woman to lust after her has committed adultery with her already in his heart.

29 And if your right eye offend you, pluck it out, and cast it from you: for it is profitable for you that one of your members should perish, and not that your whole body should be cast into hell.

30 And if your right hand offend you, cut it off, and cast it from you: for it is profitable for you that one of your members should perish, and not that your whole body should be cast into hell.

31 It has been said, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement:

32 But I say to you, That whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, cause her to commit adultery: and whosoever shall marry her that is divorced commit adultery.

33 Again, you have heard that it has been said by them of old time, you shall not commit perjury yourself, but shall perform to the Lord your oaths:

34 But I say to you, Swear not at all; neither by heaven; for it is God's throne:

35 Nor by the earth; for it is his footstool: neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King.

36 Neither shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black.

37 But let your communication be, yes, yes; No, no: for whatsoever is more than these come of evil.

38 you have heard that it has been said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth:

39 But I say to you, That you resist not evil: but whosoever shall strike you on your right cheek, turn to him the other also.

40 And if any man will sue you at the law, and take away your coat, let him have your cloak also.

41 And whosoever shall compel you to go a mile, go with him two.

42 Give to him that ask you, and from him that would borrow of you turn not you away.

43 you have heard that it has been said, you shall love your neighbour, and hate your enemy.

44 But I say to you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you;

45 That you may be the children of your Father which is in heaven: for he make his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and send rain on the just and on the unjust.

46 For if you love them which love you, what reward have you? do not even the tax collectors the same?

47 And if you salute your brother only, what do you more than others? do not even the tax collectors so?

48 Be you therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.