7 Judge not, that you be not judged.

2 For with what judgment you judge, you shall be judged: and with what measure you use, it shall be measured to you again.

3 And why look you the speck of sawdust that is in your brother's eye, but consider not the beam that is in your own eye?

4 Or how can you say to your brother, Let me pull out the speck out of your eye; and, behold, a beam is in your own eye?

5 you hypocrite, first take out the beam out of your own eye; and then shall you see clearly to take out the speck out of your brother's eye.

6 Give not that which is holy to the dogs, neither cast you your pearls before pigs, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and tear you.

7 Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and you shall find; knock, and it shall be opened to you:

8 For every one that asks receives; and he that seeks finds; and to him that knocks it shall be opened.

9 Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone?

10 Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent?

11 If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?

12 Therefore all things whatsoever you would that men should do to you, do you even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets.

13 Enter you in at the narrow gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leads to destruction, and many there be which go in there:

14 Because narrow is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leads to life, and few there be that find it.

15 Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.

16 you shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?

17 Even so every good tree brings forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree brings forth evil fruit.

18 A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.

19 Every tree that brings not forth good fruit is cut down, and cast into the fire.

20 Wherefore by their fruits you shall know them.

21 Not every one that says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that does the will of my Father which is in heaven.

22 Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name? and in your name have cast out devils? and in your name done many wonderful works?

23 And then will I tell to them, I never knew you: depart from me, you that work immoraly.

24 Therefore whosoever hears these sayings of mine, and does them, I will like him to a wise man, which built his house upon a rock:

25 And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock.

26 And every one that hears these sayings of mine, and does them not, shall be like to a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand:

27 And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it.

28 And it came to pass, when Jesus had ended these sayings, the people were astonished at his doctrine:

29 For he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes.